\section*{}
Research into heuristics and search has resulted in numerous successes
in domain-independent planning for nearly two decades. The approach
remains a staple in classical planning, temporal planning, and planning
under uncertainty, and progress shows no sign of decline. This workshop
offers a discussion forum and an opportunity to showcase new and
emerging ideas in the area. Past workshops have featured novel methods
that have grown and formed indispensable lines of research.

This year marks a decade since the first workshop on Heuristics for
Domain-independent Planning (HDIP) was held in 2007. HDIP was
subsequently held in 2009 and 2011. With the fourth workshop in 2012,
the organizers sought to recognize the role search algorithms play in
providing successful solutions to planning problems. They made a
concerted effort to increase the scope of the workshop and renamed it
to the workshop on Heuristics and Search for Domain-independent
Planning (HSDIP) to encourage submissions on search. The workshop found
success under both names and has become an annual event each year at
ICAPS. This is its ninth iteration.

Above all, the workshop encourages innovative ideas for heuristics and
search both in theory and practice. We emphasize clarity and
understanding rather than focusing solely on significant empirical
improvements. Rather than worrying exclusively about the number of
problems solved, or solving larger instances, we have equal interest in
specific studies on solving complex planning constraints that have
caused significant difficulty for other planners. Further, though the
series of workshops have often focused on classical planning, we have
sought to encourage papers on temporal planning, hierarchical planning,
planning under uncertainty and a variety of other topics.

\bigskip
\begin{flushright}
J. Benton, Nir Lipovetzky, Florian Pommerening, Miquel Ramirez,
Enrico Scala, Jendrik Seipp, and \'{A}lvaro Torralba\\
June 2017
\end{flushright}
